# Retrospective: Level 1 to 3 Incident 2018-08-10 - 2018-08-30
#### Bugzilla Bug: [1489181](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1486505)

## Background

Level 1 credentials were able to create tasks on level-3 workers (release
build) sometime between 2018-08-10T12:50:27.435Z and 2018-08-27T16:00Z.

The `moz-tree:level:1` role was accidentally granted scope
`queue:create-task:aws-provisioner-v1/gecko*`.  This scope governs creation of
tasks for any workerTypes in AWS where the `workerType` begins with `gecko` --
including workers like `gecko-3-b-win2012` which build Firefox binaries that
are eventually released to users.  The `moz-tree:level:1` role is<sup>1</sup>
available to tasks generated for all level 1 repos, including try. It is also
available during interactive login to all [users with level-1 (try)
access](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/about/governance/policies/commit/access-policy/).

This unintended grant of scope permitted anyone with level-1 access to create
tasks on level-3 workers. Coupled with compromises of Docker or other
unintended scope grants, this would have permitted an attacker to “poison” L3
builders during a time period when Firefox 61.0.2 was built and released.

The mistake was not detected for 17 days.  It was rectified immediately upon
detection.  The full severity was not immediately clear, and deeper
investigation did not occur until 24 hours later.  That investigation showed
that no suspicious tasks were created.

<sup>1</sup>As part of [work unrelated to this incident](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1465842), this role is no longer used.

## Timeline

  - 2018-08-10 1250 UTC ::::: API call by mozilla-auth0/ad|Mozilla-LDAP|wcosta modifies moz-tree:level:1:gecko to include  queue:create-task:aws-provisioner-v1/gecko-*
  - 2018-08-27 1600 UTC ::::: dmitchell@m.c notices mis-configuration, investigates in private irc channel, fixes same
  - 2018-08-28 0659 UTC (approx) ::::: All L3 builders terminated due to unrelated incident
  - 2018-08-28 1710 UTC ::::: Sec Ops notified
  - 2018-08-28 1826 UTC ::::: RelEng notified
  - 2018-08-28 1945 UTC ::::: Slack incident channel formed with RelMan notification by catlee; releases blocked until analysis complete
  - 2018-08-28 2133 UTC ::::: Plan for analysis of log files firmed up
  - 2018-08-29 0008 UTC ::::: Log file collection done, analysis begins
  - 2018-08-29 0309 UTC ::::: First pass analysis complete, shows no use of bad scope.  Shutdown for night, reconfirm findings in morning
  - 2018-08-29 1430 UTC ::::: Findings reviewed and confirmed: no use was made of bad scope.
  - 2018-08-29 1511 UTC ::::: Catlee and ulfr agree to unblock releases
  - 2018-08-30 1633 UTC ::::: RC 2 builds started 

## Fallout

  - RC 2.2 builds were delayed while investigation took place; the overall release timeline was not impacted

## Action Items

  - update teams on incident escalation process
  - ballpark estimate other improvements
  - plan for improvements to TC audit logging
  - potential solutions for “meaningful scope review”

## Thanks

  - Chris Cooper
  - Chris AtLee
  - Julien Vehent
  - Dustin Mitchell
  - Brian Stack
  - Tom Prince
  - Hassan Ali
  - Pete Moore
  - Ben Hearsum
  - AJ Bahnken
  - Hal Wine
